.\" $Header: /cvsroot-fuse/bastille-linux/dev/working_tree/Bastille/docs/bastille.1m,v 1.30 2007/10/19 17:03:41 fritzr Exp $
.\" #Header: /cvsroot/bastille-linux/dev/working_tree/Bastille/docs/bastille.1m,v 1.23 2006/11/06 22:33:18 fritzr Exp $
.\" Delivered to both HP-UX and Linux; use only RIB fonts
.TA b \" used by HP-UX troff
.TH bastille 1M "$Date: 2007/10/19 17:03:41 $" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
bastille \- system lockdown tool
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
Path:
.BR /usr/sbin
(Linux)
.PP
Path:
.BR /opt/sec_mgmt/bastille/bin
(HP\-UX)
.HP
.BR bastille
[
.B \-b
|
.B \-c
|
.B \-x
]
[
.B \-f
.I alternate_config_file
]
.br
[
.B \-\-os
[
.I version
]
]
.HP
.BR bastille
[
.B \-l
|
.B \-r
|
.B \-\-assess
|
.B \-\-assessnobrowser
]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
Bastille is a system\-hardening/lockdown program
that enhances the security of a Unix host.
It configures daemons, system settings and firewalls to be more secure.
It can shut off unneeded services and r\-tools like
.BR rcp
and
.BR rlogin ,
and helps create "chroot jails"
that help limit the vulnerability of common Internet services,
like Web servers and DNS.
This tool currently hardens
Red Hat 6.0\-8.0,
Mandrake 6.0\-8.1,
HP\-UX 11i v1,
HP\-UX 11i v2,
and
HP\-UX 11i v3.
It is currently being tested on Debian, SuSE, and Turbo Linux.
.PP
The utility includes a policy/configuration\-selection interface, a configuration engine and a reporting module.
The primary profile\-building interface is an X interface via Perl/Tk.
There is also a text\-based Perl/Curses interface for Linux.
The tool can be used
interactively and non-interactively
(when the policy\-application engine is used directly).
Used interactively, to build system\-security configurations,
Bastille has been designed to explain security issues to system administrators,
then let them decide how to let the tool handle them.
This both secures the system and educates the administrator.
When the configuration engine is used directly,
the utility is useful for duplicating
a security configuration on multiple machines.
.PP
When used interactively
.RB ( bastille ,
.BR "bastille \-x" ,
or
.BR "bastille \-c" ),
the user interface guides you through a series of questions.
Each step contains a description of a security decision
involved in hardening a Unix system.
Each question describes the cost/benefit of each decision.
The Tk interface gives you the option
to skip to another question module and return to the current module later.
The X interface provides "Completed Indicators"
to show you which question modules are complete.
After you have answered all of the questions,
the interface then provides automated support in performing lockdown steps.
After performing the steps Bastille can perform automatically,
the utility produces a "to\-do" list
that describes remaining actions you must perform manually
to ensure the system is secure.
.PP
Security hardening can also be performed directly
through the configuration engine
.RB ( "bastille \-b" )
using the default or an alternate configuration
.RB ( "bastille \-b \-f " \f2file\f1)
(see the
.BR config
file in the
.IR FILES
section below for the default location).
This method is useful for duplicating
a particular security configuration on multiple machines.
Before using the configuration engine directly,
a configuration file must be created by using Bastille interactively.
After the configuration file is created,
copy it to the other systems,
install Bastille Unix on those systems,
then run the configuration engine on those systems.
.PP
Bastille draws from many major reputable sources on Unix Security.
The initial development integrated Jay Beale's
existing O/S hardening experience for Solaris and Linux
with most major points from the SANS'
.IR "Securing Linux Step by Step"
and Kurt Seifried's
.IR "Linux Administrator's Security Guide" .
Later versions incorporated suggestions from the
.IR "HP\-UX Bastion Host White-paper" ,
Center for Internet Security, and other sources.
.PP
To ensure that Bastille is used as safely as possible, please:
.RS 2
.TP 3
1)
Let the developers know about any impacts you discover
which aren't mentioned in the question text
for possible inclusion in future revisions of the questions text.
.TP
2)
Test Bastille configurations in a non-production environment first,
with the application stack fully functionally tested after lockdown
before deployment in a production environment.
The characterization of consequences is known to be incomplete,
especially for general purpose systems.
.RE
.SS Options
.BR bastille
recognizes the following options
.TP
.B \-b
Run in batch mode.
This option takes the answers
that were created interactively and applies them to the machine.
.TP
.B \-c
Linux Only.
Bring up the text interface of the interactive portion of Bastille.
It is implemented with the Perl/Curses module,
which must be installed separately
if it did not come with your version of Perl.
.TP
.BI \-f\0  alternate_config_file
Use an alternate config file versus the default location.
.TP
.B \-l
List applied configuration files.
List the configuration files
in the configuration file directory that matches the one last used.
.TP
.B \-r
Revert Bastille\-modified system files
to the state they were in before Bastille was run.
Note that,
if any changes to the system configuration were made in the interim,
those changes should be reviewed again to make sure they
(1) still work,
and (2) have not broken the system or compromised its security.
.TP
.B \-x
The default option.
Run the Bastille X interface.
It is implemented with the Perl/Tk module,
which must be installed separately
if it did not come with your version of Perl.
.TP
.B \-\-assess
Run Bastille in assessment\-only mode so
that it investigates the state of hardening,
reports on such and generates a score.
No changes
are made to the system.
It generates HTML and text reports and a Bastille configuration file.
.IP
For each question, Bastille generates one of the following results:
.RS
.TP
.B Yes
The associated Bastille lockdown has been applied to the product or service shipped with HP-UX.
Bastille may not always correctly detect the status of products or services that
are not shipped with the HP-UX OE.
Also, Bastille may not detect all variations
of the possible ways to disable or enable a service or feature.
It will detect
if Bastille did so, and will likely detect configuration made in accepted, standard ways.
.TP
.B No
The question configuration has not been applied.
.TP
.B User Action Pending
Bastille had performed a partial configuration; leaving the user
with some actions needed to complete the configuration.
These actions are
listed in the TODO file listed below.
.TP
.B Inconsistent
Bastille can not tell the status.
Usually, this is do to the system being in an inconsistent state.
For example,
Bastille would return this status of a service running in the process list,
but configured on disk to be off.
Note, there are some cases where
inconsistent states that Bastille can not detect could be created on the system,
so if the administrator has made changes to the system, and needs to rely on
Bastille results, the system should be rebooted first to ensure the configuration
is consistent.
This caveat does not apply to Bastille initiated actions.
.TP
.B N/A: S/W Not Installed
This indicates that the relevant software is not
installed, so there is no need to lock down the given item, but care should
be taken when the software is installed to lock it down at that point.
.TP
.B Needed S/W Missing
This indicates that the item is not locked down since it needs software
that is currently not available on the system.
.TP
.BI "Set to " value
This indicates a non-boolean setting.
.TP
.B Not Defined
This indicates a non-boolean setting that has not been set yet.
Thus the system default settings apply.
In the case of later HP-UX versions,
default account security settings are often found in the
.BR /etc/security.dsc
file.
.RE
.IP
See the
.IR FILES
section for location.
The HTML version of the
report is shown in a browser if either a graphical
or text browser can be found.
.TP
.B \-\-assessnobrowser
Same as
.BR \-\-assess ,
except that the report is not displayed in a browser.
.TP
.BR \-\-os [\0\f2version\fP\0]
Explicitly set the operating system version
while generating a configuration file.
By setting the operating system version,
all questions valid for that operating system will be asked
and configuration files can be generated for any version Bastille recognizes.
For a complete list of operating system versions type
.BR "bastille \-x \-\-os" .
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.TP
.B "$DISPLAY not set, cannot use X interface..."
You explicitly asked for the X interface using the
.BR \-x
option, but the
.BR DISPLAY
environment variable was not set.
Set the environment variable to the desired display to correct the problem.
.TP
.B "System is in original state..."
You attempted to revert the files that Bastille changes with the
.BR \-r
option, but there were no changes to revert.
.TP
.B "Must run Bastille as root"
Bastille must run as the root user,
since the changes it makes configure the machine.
.SS Troubleshooting
Error messages that cite problems with opening, copying, or reading files
usually relate to NFS file systems
that do not trust the root user on the local machine.
Please see the options parameter in the
.IR fstab (4)
manpage for details.
Errors that complain about individual configuration files
indicate that a system has been too heavily modified
for Bastille to make effective changes,
or that the files, locations, or permissions
of the Bastille installation directories have been changed.
.PP
If Bastille is unable to complete a lockdown, you should receive errors or
warnings.
Analyze the errors or warnings to determine if your lockdown was
successfully applied.
You may use the
.BR \-\-assess
option to aid in this diagnostic.
Once the system state that caused the abort is fixed, run
.BR bastille
again to complete the lockdown.
This helps avoid cases where an incomplete lockdown
can contribute to an inconsistent system configuration.
.br
.ne 7
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.SS Example 1
Run the Bastille X interface.
This will create a configuration file
which can be run either immediately by Bastille
after you have answered all of the questions,
or saved for later use in a
.BR config
file.
See the
.IR FILES
section below.
.IP
.B "bastille"
.br
.ne 5
.SS Example 2
Run Bastille in batch mode.
This will take the answers that were created interactively
and apply them to the machine.
.IP
.B "bastille \-b"
.br
.ne 5
.SS Example 3
Perform an audit of the system to determine the state of the
security settings on it, and place it in the audit log locations
(specified below).
.IP
.B "bastille \-\-assessnobrowser"
.SH "DEPENDENCIES"
.RS 2
.TP 3
\(bu
Perl version 5.8.0 or greater, but recommend 5.8.8 or greater for best performance
.TP
\(bu
Perl/Tk version 8.00.23 or greater
.TP
\(bu
Perl/Curses version 1.06 or greater (on Linux only)
.RE
.SH "FILES"
.TP 10
.BR /etc/Bastille/config \0\0(Linux)
.TP
.BR /etc/opt/sec_mgmt/bastille/config \0\0(HP\-UX)
.IP
The
.BR config
file contains the answers to the most recently saved session
.TP
.BR /var/log/Bastille/error\-log \0\0(Linux)
.TP
.BR /var/opt/sec_mgmt/bastille/log/error\-log \0\0(HP\-UX)
.IP
The error log contains any errors that Bastille encountered
while making changes to the system.
.TP
.BR /var/log/Bastille/action\-log \0\0(Linux)
.TP
.BR /var/opt/sec_mgmt/bastille/log/action\-log \0\0(HP\-UX)
.IP
The action log contains the specific steps
that Bastille took when making changes to the system.
.TP
.BR /var/log/Bastille/TODO \0\0(Linux)
.TP
.BR /var/opt/sec_mgmt/bastille/TODO.txt \0\0(HP\-UX)
.IP
The to\-do list contains the actions
that remain for you to do to ensure the machine is secure.
.TP
.BR  /var/log/Bastille/Assessment/assessment\-report.html  \0\0(Linux)
.TP
.BR  /var/log/Bastille/Assessment/assessment\-report.txt  \0\0(Linux)
.TP
.BR  /var/log/Bastille/Assessment/assessment\-report\-log.txt \0\0(Linux)
.TP
.BR  /var/opt/sec_mgmt/bastille/log/Assessment/assessment\-report.html  \0\0(HP\-UX)
.TP
.BR  /var/opt/sec_mgmt/bastille/log/Assessment/assessment\-report.txt  \0\0(HP\-UX)
.TP
.BR /var/opt/sec_mgmt/bastille/log/Assessment/assessment\-report\-log.txt \0\0(HP\-UX)
.IP
These are the assessment report locations.
They are formatted HTML, text, and a Bastille "config\-file" respectively.
.TP
.BR /var/log/Bastille/Assessment/Assessment/Drift.txt \0\0(Linux)
.TP
.BR /var/opt/sec_mgmt/bastille/log/Assessment/Drift.txt \0\0(HP\-UX)
.IP
This contains information about any configuration drift the system had
experienced since the last Bastille run.
This file will only be created
when there has been an earlier Bastille\-configuration applied to the
system.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
perl(1),
bastille_drift(1M),
fstab(4)
.PP
Here are some other references used during Bastille's development. 
Note that the websites and content are maintained by their domain 
owners.  The domain owners are solely responsible for their own site and content:
.RS 0
.TP
.IR "The Linux Security HOWTO"
Available at
.BR http://www.linuxdoc.org/HOWTO/Security\-HOWTO.html .
One of the best references regarding general Linux Security.
.TP
.IR "Security Quick\-Start HOWTO for Linux"
Available at
.BR http://www.linuxsecurity.com/docs/LDP/Security\-Quickstart\-HOWTO/ .
This is also a very good starting point for novice users
(both to Linux and security).
.TP
.IR "The Linux Security Administrator's Guide"
Available at
.BR http://seifried.org/lasg/ .
.TP
.IR "Securing and Optimizing Linux: RedHat Edition"
Available at
.BR http://www.linuxdoc.org/links/p_books.html#securing_linux .
.TP
.IR "Securing Debian Manual"
Available at
.BR http://www.debian.org/doc/manuals/securing\-debian\-howto .
It is provided for offline reading in several formats
(Text, HTML and PDF) by installing the
.BR harden\-doc
package in Debian systems.
.RE
.\"
.\" ---- BEGIN output from makeflit, Mon Nov 27 13:44:04 2006
.\" index - marker
.\" index@\f1lockdown tool; system@@@\f3bastille(1M)\f1
.\" index@\f1system lockdown tool@@@\f3bastille(1M)\f1
.\" index@\f1tool; system lockdown@@@\f3bastille(1M)\f1
.\" index@\f4bastille\f1 \- system lockdown tool@@@\f3bastille(1M)\f1
.\" toc - marker
.\" toc@\f3bastille(1M)\f1:\0\0\f4bastille\f1@@@system lockdown tool
